docs: eludris detailed (#2)
eludris/docs: src/detailed/authentication_and_encryption.md

# Authentication & Encryption
This page details how Authentication & Encryption may work for Eludris.

> ## The Token

Reviewer: Isn't this section missing info about per session tokens and invalidation

Author: That is two ever put on the doc?

Reviewer: https://github.com/Eludris/eludris/blob/62188a5b44870db29b49a4d58f6a23327a776999/plan.md#L57-59 yes

Eludris uses JWT tokens to authenticate users. These tokens are required for nearly every interaction. Connection to the Gateway or trying to interact with the API? You'll need a token!
The JWT tokens used within our services use a cryptographically secure pseudo-random string with HC128 as a secret. 
If you wish to get a new token send an HTTP request to `/auth` with your email and password.

## End-To-End-Encryption

> End-To-End-Encryption (we'll be calling it E2EE for now on) will be available to private communities, private GDMs (group direct messages) and direct messages (DMs) between friends.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be "from now on"

### E2EE Implementation

To introduce this, every user has a personal, unique, public and private key provided.

> Events with encrypted data (message, post, etc) have an extra field in their payload, the pubkey field which contains the public key the message's content was encrypted with so that the corresponding private key would be fetched from the user's public-private key pairs and requested if the current one is invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Events with encrypted data (message, post, etc) have an extra field in their payload, the `pubkey` field which contains the public key the message's content was encrypted with so that the corresponding private key would be fetched from the user's public-private key pairs and requested if the current one is invalid.
```

> Events with encrypted data (message, post, etc) have an extra field in their payload, the pubkey field which contains the public key the message's content was encrypted with so that the corresponding private key would be fetched from the user's public-private key pairs and requested if the current one is invalid.

Reviewer: > so that the corresponding private key would be fetched from the user's public-private key pairs and requested if the current one is invalid.

maybe change it to something among the lines of

", so that the client can use the corresponding private key."

for accuracy

# Authentication & Encryption
This page details how Authentication & Encryption may work for Eludris.

## The Token

Eludris uses JWT tokens to authenticate users. These tokens are required for nearly every interaction. Connection to the Gateway or trying to interact with the API? You'll need a token!
The JWT tokens used within our services use a cryptographically secure pseudo-random string with HC128 as a secret. 
If you wish to get a new token send an HTTP request to `/auth` with your email and password.

## End-To-End-Encryption

End-To-End-Encryption (we'll be calling it E2EE for now on) will be available to private communities, private GDMs (group direct messages) and direct messages (DMs) between friends.

### E2EE Implementation

> To introduce this, every user has a personal, unique, public and private key provided.

Reviewer 2: A tad nitpicky, but I feel like this reads as if there were four keys, maybe something like `[...] every user is provided a personal and unique pair of a public and private key.`?

Events with encrypted data (message, post, etc) have an extra field in their payload, the `pubkey` field which contains the public key the message's content was encrypted with so that the corresponding private key would be fetched from the user's public-private key pairs and requested if the current one is invalid.

As for storing public-private key pairs, storing them locally (on the client's machine) causes a lot of extra complexity, especially with sharing and syncing keys.

For example, issues with a client being offline when it's given a key, multiple clients and so on.

To combat that, Eludris' E2EE is designed so that each user has a super private-public key pair that their other private keys are encrypted with.

> The instance *does not know* the user's super private key, additionally the instance gives the user all the (unencrypted) public and (ecnrypted with each user's super public key) private keys on connecting to Pandemonium, the instance ***never*** gets access to the non-encrypted private keys of *any* key pair at any point in time.

Reviewer 2: ~~ecnrypted~~ -> encrypted

Also, I feel like this could be split into multiple sentences.

> The instance *does not know* the user's super private key, additionally the instance gives the user all the (unencrypted) public and (ecnrypted with each user's super public key) private keys on connecting to Pandemonium, the instance ***never*** gets access to the non-encrypted private keys of *any* key pair at any point in time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The instance *does not know* the user's super private key. The instance gives the user all the (unencrypted) public and private keys (encrypted with each user's super public key) when connecting to Pandemonium.

The instance ***never*** gets access to the non-encrypted private keys of *any* key pair at any point in time.
```

To further increase the security each instance marks all sessions (besides the first) as untrusted and essentially rats it out to everyone, a user can verify their session from their original session in which they securely pass on the super key pair to the new instance.

#### Direct Messages

> This one is quite simple, upon a friend request getting accepted and two users becoming friends, the user who accepted the friend request sends a payload with a public key and a private key for the DM, both encrypted using the other user's public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This one is quite simple, upon a friend request getting accepted and two users becoming friends, the user who accepted the friend request sends a payload with a public key and a private key for the DM, both encrypted using the other user's super public key.
```

After that all messages sent in this DM is encrypted using the DM's public key and are decrypted with the DM's private key which is stored on the instance twice, once encrypted with the first user's super public key, and another encrypted with the second user's super public key.

A user can also request they get a new key from the other end which will entirely scrap the old pair of keys and generate new ones in case the old ones get compromised.

#### Group DMs

> Group DMs can be encrypted too, they work in a similar fashion, the host sends the room's public and private keys to all the starting participants on room creation encrypted with their public keys.

Reviewer 2: More nits, there should be a full stop after "too" here, imo.
